# Internationalization

Available locales are

| Code | Language | Translator |
| ---- | -------- | ---------- |
| `en` | English  | [@Etto48][Etto48] |
| `it-IT` | Italian (Italy) | [@Etto48][Etto48] |
| `fr-FR` | French (France) | AI |
| `es-ES` | Spanish (Spain) | AI |
| `de-DE` | German (Germany) | AI |
| `ja-JP` | Japanese (Japan) | AI |
| `zh-CN` | Simplified Chinese (China) | [@Meow0x7E][Meow0x7E] |
| `zh-TW` | Traditional Chinese (Taiwan) | [@Meow0x7E][Meow0x7E] |
| `zh-HK` | Traditional Chinese (Hong Kong) | [@Meow0x7E][Meow0x7E] |

You can set the locale with the key `app.locale` in the settings file. See the [settings documentation](./SETTINGS.md) for more information.

[Etto48]: https://github.com/Etto48
[Meow0x7E]: https://github.com/Meow0x7E

## Contributing

You are welcome to contribute a new locale or improve an existing one.

If you use AI to translate, please communicate clearly in the pull request that the translation was done by AI.

### Creating a New Locale

1. (mandatory) Create a new file in the `locales` directory with the name `<code>.yml`, where `<code>` is the locale code (e.g., `it-IT.yaml` for Italian). The file should contain all the keys and values needed for the locale, following the structure of `locales/en.yml` as a reference.
You can use the `locales/en.yml` file as a template and translate the values to your desired language.
2. (optional) Add the new locale to the `package.metadata.i18n.available-locales` array in Cargo.toml.
3. (optional) Add the new locale to the `Locale` enum in `src/app/settings/locale.rs`. To do so, follow the pattern of existing locales.
4. (optional) Add the new locale to this file (`docs/I18N.md`) in the table above, including the translator's GitHub username or `AI` if you used it to generate the translation.
5. (mandatory) Create a pull request with the changes.

### Improving an Existing Locale

1. (mandatory) Edit the existing locale file in the `locales` directory (e.g., `locales/it-IT.yml` for Italian).
2. (optional) Add you name to the translator column in the table above in this file (`docs/I18N.md`).
3. (mandatory) Create a pull request with the changes.
